# CFD-ML-project
Machine learning and genetic algorithms for the optimization of microchannel heat sinks


# Research Review

The heat removal issue from small electronic devices is becoming more critical as they become more compact. Studies have shown that even a slight increase in temperature beyond this limit can significantly decrease reliability and lifespan. Microchannel heat sinks have been proposed as a solution to this challenge. This study focuses on finding the optimal design with the lowest thermal resistance for single-layer and truncated double-layer microchannel heat sinks with flattened cross-sections using machine learning models (ML), genetic algorithm (GA), and computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations in four constant pumping powers. The thermal performance of a non-Newtonian coolant is also compared to water. 

During the optimization process, the optimal configuration of a single-layer flattened MCHS with the lowest thermal resistance is determined by employing CFD simulations between the cases with different numbers of channels. However, for the case of double-layer design, an initial CFD analysis is conducted on five important geometrical and operational parameters, including the number of microchannels, velocity ratio, height ratio, length ratio, and wall thickness ratio. Subsequently, polynomial regression (PR) and artificial neural networks (ANN) prediction models are evaluated, and the preferred algorithm is trained and tested with a CFD-generated dataset, determining the optimal case for each pumping power by combination with the genetic algorithm. The present numerical study addresses a three-dimensional steady conjugate heat transfer problem, which is solved with the Galerkin-based finite element method. The coolant used is MWCNT/water nanofluid, which has a non-Newtonian viscosity function described by the Power Law model.

Like other investigated parameters, there is an optimal value regarding channel number. Results show that increasing channel number reduces hydraulic diameter and increases pressure loss, impacting heat transfer negatively. In contrast, a low channel number leads to increased thermal resistance due to insufficient heat transfer area. The ANN model shows a good accuracy of 70%, although the polynomial regression model exhibits well above 90% precision for all datasets, primarily due to their size. 

Substituting water with MWCNT/water nanofluid as the coolant increases thermal performance by up to 10% in single-layer geometry and up to 6% in truncated double-layer geometry. Furthermore, it is found that this nanofluid outperforms water when the pumping power is high. However, using MWCNT/water nanofluid instead of water worsens the cooling performance of the heat sink at very low pumping power. This is because the shearing flow is not strong enough to reduce MWCNT/water nanofluid's viscosity significantly. As a result, the higher viscosity of the nanofluid weakens the convective heat transfer under the same pumping powers, and the increased thermal conductivity of the base fluid due to carbon nanotubes cannot counteract this adverse effect.

To sum up, this study evaluated and optimized single-layer and truncated double-layer MCHSs with non-Newtonian MWCNT/water nanofluid as a coolant using CFD simulations and ML models. Various parameters are optimized under four different pumping powers, and optimal cases are identified based on achieving the lowest thermal resistance. The main findings of the present investigation are a 50% reduction in the number of CFD simulations and up to 10% thermal enhancement compared to water coolant.
